[MTM-63427] Update documentation to include new data point explorer and graph (#3334)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/cockpit/data-explorer-bundle/working-with-data-explorer.md

    The data explorer can be sent as widget to a dashboard or downloaded as CSV or Excel file."
---

{{< c8y-admon-preview-toggle >}}

> Toggle between ga and preview features documentation to see upcoming changes to the data explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toggle on the preview feature documentation to see upcoming changes to the existing functionality.
```

Reviewer: I would phrase it more generic so that we can easily re-use this in other places.

{{< /c8y-admon-preview-toggle >}}

> In the data explorer, data points (measurements or sensor data) can be visualized.

Reviewer: This sentence shows up twice, before and after the Requirements. I suggest to delete it here.

On the left, in the main card, you see its visualization.

> {{< c8y-admon-stable >}}

Reviewer: I would also use a different naming here. Why stable?

Author: @BeateRixen  Any suggestion? I'm not sure how to name it...

Reviewer: > @BeateRixen Any suggestion? I'm not sure how to name it...

I just discussed this with Niko. We generally talk about GA features as opposed to preview features. So let´s better use {{< c8y-admon-ga >}}. We should definitely avoid the term "stable" so we should also not use it in internal elements.

Author: changed

![Data explorer](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dataexplorer.png)
{{< /c8y-admon-ga >}}

> {{< c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```

![Data explorer](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dataexplorer-v2.png)

> {{< /c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< /c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```

</tbody>
</table>

{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}

### To add or clone a workspace {#to-add-or-clone-a-workspace}

Workspaces in the data explorer let you create, save, and manage different configurations tailored to your specific needs - whether for individual devices, projects, or use cases. Each workspace stores your selected data points, chart layout, time range, and all visual customizations. Workspaces are saved automatically in your browser's local storage, so any updates (like adding or removing data points or changing the visualization) are preserved instantly.

You can switch between multiple workspaces using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the **Data explorer** page. This menu provides the following actions:

- Create new configuration – Start from a blank workspace with no data points or settings applied.
- Clone a configuration – Duplicate the current workspace to use it as a starting point for a new setup.
- Delete all configurations (except the active one) – Clean up your saved configurations by removing all others, keeping only the currently active workspace.

> - Share workspace – Each workspace has a unique URL that can be shared with other users. To view the shared workspace, users must have access to the same devices and data points.

Reviewer 2: As this is not an explicit option in the menu (but maybe we could add another button which copies the URL of selected configuration to clipboard?), for now I'd separate it into an own paragraph like:
```suggestion
You can switch between multiple workspaces using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the **Data explorer** page. This menu provides the following actions:

- Create new configuration – Start from a blank workspace with no data points or settings applied.
- Clone a configuration – Duplicate the current workspace to use it as a starting point for a new setup.
- Delete all configurations (except the active one) – Clean up your saved configurations by removing all others, keeping only the currently active workspace.

Each configuration has a unique URL that can be shared with other users. To use the shared configuration URL, those users must have access to the referenced devices and data points.
```

> - Share workspace – Each workspace has a unique URL that can be shared with other users. To view the shared workspace, users must have access to the same devices and data points.

Reviewer 2: Sounds like "workspace" and "configuration" actually refers to the same thing? Maybe we should unify the terms? UI never mentions "workspace".

Author: Done

</tbody>
</table>

{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}

> ### To add or clone a workspace {#to-add-or-clone-a-workspace}

Author: ```suggestion
### To add or clone a configuration{#to-add-or-clone-a-configuration}
```

> Workspaces in the data explorer let you create, save, and manage different configurations tailored to your specific needs - whether for individual devices, projects, or use cases. Each workspace stores your selected data points, chart layout, time range, and all visual customizations. Workspaces are saved automatically in your browser's local storage, so any updates (like adding or removing data points or changing the visualization) are preserved instantly.

Author: ```suggestion
Configurations in the data explorer let you create, save, and manage different configurations tailored to your specific needs - whether for individual devices, projects, or use cases. Each configuration stores your selected data points, chart layout, time range, and all visual customizations. Configurations are saved automatically in your browser's local storage, so any updates (like adding or removing data points or changing the visualization) are preserved instantly.
```

> You can switch between multiple workspaces using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the **Data explorer** page. This menu provides the following actions:

Author: ```suggestion
You can switch between multiple configurations using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the **Data explorer** page. This menu provides the following actions:
```

> - Create new configuration – Start from a blank workspace with no data points or settings applied.

Author: ```suggestion
- Create new configuration – Start from a blank configuration with no data points or settings applied.
```

> - Clone a configuration – Duplicate the current workspace to use it as a starting point for a new setup.

Author: ```suggestion
- Clone a configuration – Duplicate the current configurations to use it as a starting point for a new setup.
```

> - Delete all configurations (except the active one) – Clean up your saved configurations by removing all others, keeping only the currently active workspace.

Author: ```suggestion
- Delete all configurations (except the active one) – Clean up your saved configurations by removing all others, keeping only the currently active configuration.
```

Each configuration has a unique URL that can be shared with other users. To use the shared configuration URL, those users must have access to the referenced devices and data points.

> ![Data explorer workspaces](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dataexplorer-workspaces.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![Data explorer configurations](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dataexplorer-workspaces.png)
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> Since workspaces are stored locally, they are tied to your browser and device. Clearing browser data will remove them.

Author: ```suggestion
Since configurations are stored locally, they are tied to your browser and device. Clearing browser data will remove them.
```

</tbody>
</table>

> {{< c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```

> ### To add or clone a workspace {#to-add-or-clone-workspaces}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To add or clone a workspace {#to-add-or-clone-a-workspace}
```

> ### To add or clone a workspace {#to-add-or-clone-a-workspace}

Reviewer: This shows up in the right hand index, even if the toggle is not turned on.

Author: Ah, this seems like a bug, I will see how we can solve this 🤔

Author: fixed

> Workspaces in the Data Explorer let you create, save, and manage different configurations tailored to your specific needs—whether for individual devices, projects, or use cases. Each workspace stores your selected data points, chart layout, time range, and all visual customizations. Workspaces are saved automatically in your browser's local storage, so any updates (like adding or removing data points or changing the visualization) are preserved instantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspaces in the data explorer let you create, save, and manage different configurations tailored to your specific needs - whether for individual devices, projects, or use cases. Each workspace stores your selected data points, chart layout, time range, and all visual customizations. Workspaces are saved automatically in your browser's local storage, so any updates (like adding or removing data points or changing the visualization) are preserved instantly.
```

> You can switch between multiple workspaces using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the Data Explorer page. This menu provides the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can switch between multiple workspaces using the configuration menu, located at the top left of the **Data explorer** page. This menu provides the following actions:
```

- Create new configuration – Start from a blank workspace with no data points or settings applied.

> 

Reviewer: @eniosultan Why do we have these empty lines between the list entries?

- Clone a configuration – Duplicate the current workspace to use it as a starting point for a new setup.

- Delete all configurations (except the active one) – Clean up your saved configurations by removing all others, keeping only the currently active workspace.

> - Share workspace – Each workspace has a unique URL that can be shared with other users. To view the shared workspace, users must have access to the same devices and data points.

Reviewer 2: If a workspace is shared, then it's stored on the server, right? What happens if a previously shared workspace is removed? Is it removed from both local storage and server?

Author: it's only stored in local storage.

![Data explorer workspaces](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dataexplorer-workspaces.png)

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Since workspaces are stored locally, they are tied to your browser and device. Clearing browser data will remove them.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> {{< /c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< /c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```

You may download measurement data as CSV or Excel files. The exported data shows the following information, divided into columns:

- Time when the specific measurement was taken
- Source of the measurement
- Name of the device being used
- Fragment series (for example `c8y_SpeedMeasurement`)
- Value of the measurement
- Unit used for a particular measurement (for example "C", "km/h", "sec")

{{< c8y-admon-ga >}}

To export measurement data, click the **More...** button in the top menu bar and select either **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

{{< /c8y-admon-ga >}}

{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}

> To export measurement data, click the **Export** button in the top menu bar and select your desired time range and data scope. Finally, select the checkbox to **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

Reviewer 2: Did you mean "Generate export"? Also, the checkboxes have different labels now.

Author: changed

You may download measurement data as CSV or Excel files. The exported data shows the following information, divided into columns:

- Time when the specific measurement was taken
- Source of the measurement
- Name of the device being used
- Fragment series (for example `c8y_SpeedMeasurement`)
- Value of the measurement
- Unit used for a particular measurement (for example "C", "km/h", "sec")

{{< c8y-admon-ga >}}

To export measurement data, click the **More...** button in the top menu bar and select either **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

{{< /c8y-admon-ga >}}

{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}

> To export measurement data, click the **Export** button in the top menu bar and select your desired time range and data scope. Finally, select the checkbox to **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

Author: ```suggestion
To export measurement data, click the **Generate export** button in the top menu bar and select your desired time range, data scope and file type.
```

You may download measurement data as CSV or Excel files. The exported data shows the following information, divided into columns:

- Time when the specific measurement was taken
- Source of the measurement
- Name of the device being used
- Fragment series (for example `c8y_SpeedMeasurement`)
- Value of the measurement
- Unit used for a particular measurement (for example "C", "km/h", "sec")

{{< c8y-admon-ga >}}

To export measurement data, click the **More...** button in the top menu bar and select either **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

{{< /c8y-admon-ga >}}

> {{< c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```

> To export measurement data, click the export button in the top menu bar and select your desired time range and data scope. Finally, select the checkbox to **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export measurement data, click the **Export** button in the top menu bar and select your desired time range and data scope. Finally, select the checkbox to **Download as CSV** or **Download as Excel**, according to your preferences.
```

> Click **Download** to generate and save the file to your computer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Download** to generate and save the file to your computer.
```

> {{< /c8y-admon-prevew-feature >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< /c8y-admon-preview-feature >}}
```
